>> Sarah Drasner: All right, so let's talk
about tools, many of you know these tools
but in case you don't let's
just go over them very briefly.
Because maybe you know the tools but
you might not know why you would reach for
one over another.
Photoshop and Illustrator are made
by Adobe, they are both very old.
And so
people who have worked on the web for
a long time probably know
they way around them.
I'm one of these people, so
I have all of these shortcuts and
things as I work with Photoshop and
Illustrator.
I work with Sketch but
I'm not as comfortable in Sketch because
it's a little bit of a newer tool.
Photoshop is really great for
JPEGs, Bitmaps,
like those masks we were talking
about earlier, transparencies,
effects, filters, things like that.
It's a really, really powerful tool,
and it actually does do shapes now, and
it does do things like artboards and
stuff.
So they've borrowed from other programs,
it used to be very clear,
if you're doing x, use Photoshop,
if you're doing y, use Illustrator.
They've actually learned
a bit from each other,
so the delineation isn't so
striking anymore.
Illustrator was originally intended for
things that are more like vectors.
So if you're creating an SVG,
Illustrator is really great for that.
Drawing path points and
if you do make a gradient,
the gradient is made in code
not like with pixelly things.
So creating things that have like a lot
of gradient, with a lot of patterns and
textures.
Probably going to work a little
bit better in Photoshop.
Illustrator has those capabilities too,
if you only had Illustrator,
you could totally get by, but those are
where their strengths lie, I would say.
It's a little bit more clumsy
to work with the shapes
in Photoshop than in Illustrator.
Illustrator has all sorts of ways to
combine shapes and break them apart and
clip them and things like that.
Sketch is a newer tool that took
the world by storm, if you go into any
development office today you're probably
gonna see a lot of designers using sketch.
And the reason for that is it's
really efficient at having
multiple ideas in one place.
So when I'm working with Sketch,
I can have an art board that shows a more
desktop-y view, a move mobile-y view.
Just like a bunch of lines,
some symbols, things like that, and
they can all exist on the same page and
it really doesn't slow down.
It doesn't go like, [SOUND] And your
computer sounds like it's gonna fly away.
I mean eventually you can make
an artboard that is just too much.
But Sketch is really good for that, Sketch
is really good at housing those things.
It's really good at reusable symbols,
so you can take a bunch of icons and
drop them into designs really well,
it's not good at exporting those symbols.
I'm gonna talk a lot about that
tomorrow in the SVG animation course.
But Illustrator is way, way superior
in terms of their export because they
have Dmitri Baranovski who is
the person who wrote snap SVG.
So it's just like really, really awesome.
Sketch gives you all these nested groups
that are created in a way that's really
hard to optimize and even if you do,
it's not easy to animate or work with.
So there are some differences in the way
that they handle vector-y things.
All of these tools are awesome,
and none of them are wrong.
So you can make beautiful things
in every single one of them.
It's like when people say,
which JavaScript framework should I use?
Same kinda thing, same kinda thing.
We're like, all get the job done,
it depends on personal preference for
some of this stuff.